#summary This page describes the client android app SimpleIM

= Introduction =

The client part of this Simple Instant Messaging program is Called SimpleIM. On this repository there is a project called SimpleIM - it can be imported into Eclipse IDE. Unfortunately there are no ant build files.


= Details =

As said almost everywhere - the communication is made by using UDP protocol. It is a state-less protocol. The greatest problem using this protocol (in this application) is to provide a mechanism to check if a message reached the destination or if it didn't then attempt to re-send the packet. The messages can be:
  * log in messages;
  * log out messages;
  * communication messages - that is a text message that a user A sends to another user B.

The communication is made by contacting *directly* the destination. [http://code.google.com/p/simpleim-android/wiki/ServerSimpleIM Here] I said that the [http://code.google.com/p/simpleim-android/wiki/ServerSimpleIM ServerSimpleIM] gives to every logged user the list of current registered users (with some additional information per each user - _contact information_, _status_, _localization coordinates_).

So, to make a point, it is a kind of p2p application. Every message is sent directly to the destination user and not through the server.

There's a "polling" to check whether some user logged out without sending a logout message (maybe due to communication error, etc.). In this way also each client has a fresh, up to date, view of the current users (whether they are offline or not and their localization coordinates).


== Basic Functions Provided ==

The android client application provides the following features (described at high level):
  * possibility to register / login to the chat system (that is a server - [http://code.google.com/p/simpleim-android/wiki/ServerSimpleIM ServerSimpleIM]);
  * possibility to view all the registered users - also to view their status (online or offline);
  * possibility to view on the map the users that are online. A user can choose whether others can view him on the map - note if it chooses to not to show him on the others map then he won't be able to see others on his map!
  * 